http://www.tecmint.com/sed-command-to-create-edit-and-manipulate-files-in-linux/

 Key command	 Description
 h or left arrow	 Go one character to the left
 j or down arrow	 Go down one line
 k or up arrow	 Go up one line
 l (lowercase L) or right arrow	 Go one character to the right
 H	 Go to the top of the screen
 L	 Go to the bottom of the screen
 G	 Go to the end of the file
 w	 Move one word to the right
 b	 Move one word to the left
 0 (zero)	 Go to the beginning of the current line
 ^	 Go to the first nonblank character on the current line
 $	 Go to the end of the current line
 Ctrl-B	 Go back one screen
 Ctrl-F	 Go forward one screen
 i	 Insert at the current cursor position
 I (uppercase i)	 Insert at the beginning of the current line
 J (uppercase j)	 Join current line with the next one (move next line up)
 a	 Append after the current cursor position
 o (lowercase O)	 Creates a blank line after the current line
 O (uppercase o)	 Creates a blank line before the current line
 r	 Replace the character at the current cursor position
 R	 Overwrite at the current cursor position
 x	 Delete the character at the current cursor position
 X	 Delete the character immediately before (to the left) of the current cursor position
 dd	 Cut (for later pasting) the entire current line
 D	 Cut from the current cursor position to the end of the line (this command is equivalent to d$)
 yX	 Give a movement command X, copy (yank) the appropriate number of characters, words, or lines from the current cursor position
 yy or Y	 Yank (copy) the entire current line
 p	 Paste after (next line) the current cursor position
 P	 Paste before (previous line) the current cursor position
 . (period)	 Repeat the last command
 u	 Undo the last command
 U	 Undo the last command in the last line. This will work as long as the cursor is still on the line.
 n	 Find the next match in a search
 N	 Find the previous match in a search
 :n	 Next file; when multiple files are specified for editing, this commands loads the next file.
 :e file	 Load file in place of the current file.
 :r file	 Insert the contents of file after (next line) the current cursor position
 :q	 Quit without saving changes.
 :w file	 Write the current buffer to file. To append to an existing file, use :w >> file.
 :wq	 Write the contents of the current file and quit. Equivalent to x! and ZZ
 :r! command	 Execute command and insert output after (next line) the current cursor position


